---
layout: post
title: Team Dues – Deadline 12/07
---

### 2016 Drake MTB Riders

**As we work towards** completing the 2015-2016 Drake MTB **registration** **process**, **fund** raising, jersey ordering, waiver signing, budgeting and all of the other administrative aspects of participating in the **awesomeness** that is the Drake MTB program, one of the last **hurdles** is **team dues**.

**Team dues** vary from year to year based on the success of our fund raising efforts. The dues help make up the difference between the income we raise from our team sponsors, clothing & swag sales, bike raffle (thank you **Sunshine Bikes**), **Iron Springs Give Back Tuesdays** and the current **Piggybackr** fund raising campaign and the expenses of running the program including race fees, coaches stipends, and other team activities.

**The current Piggybackr Drake MTB fundraiser** is our **biggest** source of funds for the year and it is extremely important that every rider, as a requirement of participation, join in this effort. Be sure and follow up with your student athlete and make sure that they are involved. We ask that there be a **minimum goal of $250 per rider**. It is **quick** and **easy** and really helps the program to run smoothly and keep it affordable.

#### Team dues for the 2015-2016 season are $350, and are due December 7, 2015.

Please make checks payable to Drake MTB and should be mailed to:<br>
Drake MTM

60 Cordone Drive<br>
San Anselmo, CA 94960

Please also keep in mind that this year we are extremely pleased to be able to offer a **Scholarship Fund** for those riders in need of some assistance to defray the expenses associated with team participation. Scholarship requests will be reviewed, awarded, and allocated by a scholarship committee. All applications, awards, and notifications will be held in strict confidence. Our scholarship funds are limited, and the number and amount of awards will be based on the number of requests made and individual needs.

If you and your family have a need for assistance with expenses associated with team involvement, please email us at DrakeMTBScholarship@gmail.com to describe your request. Requests can be in form of league registration fees, equipment, travel costs, or other expenses that are team related. Please submit your request by November 15, 2015.

If there are questions or concerns as to this process or any other issue that you feel should be addressed, please come to the monthly Drake MTB Parent Committee Meeting. These are held on the first Tuesday of every month, the next being December 7th, 7:00 PM in the Student Center at Drake High School. If you have specific question about dues or our budget, feel free to email me at pnicol@me.com.<br>
Philip Nicol<br>
Drake MTB Treasurer
